# Citi-bike-analysis

	The summers of 2019 and 2020 were very different times. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many aspects and services of daily life saw significant disruption. Citi Bike is New York City’s bike share system, and the largest in the nation.Citibike collects many different types of data from their customers. Data such as, amount of trips, pickup/dropoff locations,customer type,bike ids, etc. The data analyzied for this project was from the summer of 2019 (pre Covid-19) and summer of 2020 (during Covid-19). Before starting this analysis a significant decline in use was predicted. However, after completing the analysis this was not necessarily true.    	The first basic bargraph shows a slight decrease in total trips from 39,430 in 2019, to 36,921 in 2020, which was expected. Further investigation into this difference was shown in the next set visualizations shows that the weekends were the most active days. However, in 2019 the weekdays were far more active than in 2020, and in 2020 the weekends were far more active than in 2019. The decreased weekday activity in 2020 could be attributed most companies allowing employees to work from home, thus eliminating the need for service by communters. The increased weekend activity in 2020 could be attributed to people feeling the need to go outside and get exercise, and enjoying the weather due to most indoor activties were closed. Citi bike classifies users into two categories, customers and subscribers. In 2019, the vast majority of users were subscribers, in 2020 customers and subscribers were roughly equal. As stated previously, there was a signifcant drop in weekeday usage in 2020 most likely do to commuters no longer needing the service. The decrease in subscriber usage in 2020 could translate into most commuters are subscribers. 2020 saw a rise in customer usage which could be seen as people who wouldnt normally use citi-bike, but due to the pandemic shutting down indoor activities, the demand for outdoor recreational activities increased. The last dashboard shows the most common pick-up and drop off locations. Intital predications were that in 2019, drop off locations would be concentrated in the business districts. The dashboards shows that in 2019, pick off and drop off locations were relatively concentrated in the same area. In 2020 the pick up locations stayed relativily the same however, drop off locations were less concentrated in one areas and were more spread out across the city. The relates back to more customers using the service for lesuire as opposed to subscribers who use the service commuting. 

